For my senior design project, I will be working with Dr. Rashmi Jha in UC's
MIND lab on a research project in coordination with the CDC and NIOSH. The
project is focused on analyzing data obtained from subjects lifting objects to
assess lifting techniques. Some primary focuses are being able to identify a
lifting event and classifying lifts based on risk level for future back pain. I
have been informed that one of my first tasks will be cleaning up noise from
the subjects' sensors. This will involve assessing already existing filters for
what most improves our current model. I have also been told that later tasks
might include work on detecting lifts, and potentially expanding to identify
walking and standing events, as well.

A major focus of this project is on the utilization of machine learning. I have
taken a couple of classes, such as AI (CS 4033) and Intelligent Data Analysis
(CS 5152), that covered some concepts of machine learning. In particular, I am
familiar with the basic structure of artificial neural networks, as well as
some supervised and unsupervised methods. I was also introduced to some simple
methods of evaluating models, such as accuracy, precision, and recall. I'm also
comfortable with the underlying mathematical equations that define how neural
networks learn thanks to my understanding of linear algebra (MATH 2076). I
consider a lot of the knowledge I've gained from these classes to be
foundational, and am excited to learn more about machine learning by applying
these ideas more.

I also have some experience in machine learning from my first two co-op
rotations at Etegent Technologies. At Etegent, I worked as research engineer on
projects revolving around the classification of military vehicles from imagery.
My main focus was on the generation of synthetic images so the machine learning
models had enough data to train on. In addition to these tasks, I also had some
time to learn about the machine learning models we were using. This gave me a
basic understanding of convolutional neural networks, which the MIND lab used
previously for the project. I expect the knowledge I gained from learning about
the models at Etegent to be the most useful for this project.

Overall, although I have some understanding of machine learning, this project
will be the closest I've worked with machine learning models thus far. In
particular, I see the potential need to work on the model directly to more
accurately classify different events. This excites me because I see it as both
a great learning opportunity and a way to make a bigger impact on a project
than I have in the past. However, the introductory task I've been given is to
clean up some of the noise in our current data. I've been told that this is a
well-researched problem, so my approach will mainly involve researching
existing filters (potentially ones used in papers involving similar research).
It was also suggested to me to use this strategy to assess the possibility of
expanding the model to identify walking and standing movements.

The project's data is split up into multiple phases, and the next goal is to
move to phase 3, which has noisier data. The data also contains more complex
movements than previous phases. One potential way to evaluate my work is if we
can obtain as good results with the phase 3 data as we did in previous phases.
Previous members of the MIND lab have written a paper on the results they
collected. One way I see to evaluate my job is if I can also publish a paper on
improvements made since then. This is also a goal of mine, as I would like to
use a paper as a component of my master's degree.
